=head1 NAME

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Htpasswd - Basic HTTP authentication with htpasswd files in Dancer apps

=pod

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.013

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Htpasswd allows you to use Apache-style htpasswd files to
implement basic HTTP authentication in Dancer web applications. 
    
Add the plugin to your application:

    use Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Htpasswd;

In the configuration file, list the paths that you want to protect and the
htpasswd files to use:
 
    plugins:
      "Auth::Htpasswd":
        paths:
          "/restricted": /path/to/htpasswd
          "/secret/documents":
            realm: "Top Secret Documents"
            passwd_file: /different/path/to/htpasswd

You can also enable authentication by calling the C<auth_htpasswd> function in a
before filter:
    
    before sub {
        auth_htpasswd realm => 'Secret Files',
                      passwd_file => '/path/to/htpasswd';
    };

or in a route handler:
    
    get '/restricted' => sub {
        auth_htpasswd '/path/to/htpasswd';
        
        # Authenticated
        ...
    };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Htpasswd provides a simple way to implement basic HTTP
authentication in Dancer web applications using Apache-style htpasswd files.
    
=head1 CONFIGURATION

To configure the plugin, add its options in the C<plugins> section of your
application's configuration file. The supported options are listed below.

=head2 paths

Defines one or more paths that will be protected, including sub-paths (so if the
path is C<"/restricted">, then C<"/restricted/secret/file.html"> will also be
protected). Each path can have the following parameters:

=over 4

=item * C<passwd_file>

Location of the htpasswd file.

=item * C<realm>

Realm name that will be displayed in the authentication dialog. Default:
C<"Restricted area">

=back

Example:

    plugins:
      "Auth::Htpasswd":
        paths:
          "/classified":
            realm: "Classified Files"
            passwd_file: /path/to/htpasswd
            
If you don't need to set the realm, you can use the simplified syntax with just 
the location of the htpasswd file:

    plugins:
      "Auth::Htpasswd":
        paths:
          "/secret/documents": /path/to/htpasswd
          "/restricted": /another/path/to/htpasswd

=head1 SUBROUTINES

=head2 auth_htpasswd

Call this function in a before filter or at the beginning of a route handler. It
checks the specified htpasswd file to verify if the client is authorized to
access the requested path -- if not, it immediately returns a 401 Unauthorized
response to prompt the user to authenticate.

You can call this function with a single parameter, which is the location of the
htpasswd file to use:

    auth_htpasswd '/path/to/htpasswd';
    
or, with a hash of parameters:

    auth_htpasswd realm => 'Authorized personnel only',
                  passwd_file => '/path/to/htpasswd';

Parameters:

=over 4

=item * C<passwd_file>

Location of the htpasswd file.

=item * C<realm>

Realm name that will be displayed in the authentication dialog. Default:
C<"Restricted area">

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Michal Wojciechowski, C<< <odyniec at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-dancer-plugin-auth-htpasswd at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Htpasswd>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Htpasswd


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Htpasswd>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Htpasswd>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Htpasswd>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Htpasswd/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The plugin uses the L<Authen::Htpasswd> module, written by David Kamholz
and Yuval Kogman.


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Michal Wojciechowski.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.


